---
author: maeniel
comments: false
date: 2008-11-16T05:16:18Z
slug: calisto
title: calisto
url: /2008/11/16/calisto/
wordpress_id: 268
---

This evening I leave my Poet with a pile of books sent to her for review while I go to the movies. On returning and entering the sitting room, I just miss being hit by a book flying through the air. My Poet seems to have fallen onto the floor between the couch and the coffee table—on which I notice two empty bottles of wine. I pick up the book. The author's photograph takes up almost the whole back cover. Relentlessly young, with hair all the way down to her coccyx, she has clearly been deeply hurt by her loveliness (like my nun!), and no doubt writes about the agonies of being a brainy beauty with ever-surging submarinal urgings, one of a new legion of mermaidish poet-girls with kelp-like hair, ribs opening like gills, salt in their mouths! Another book hits the wall and bounces against my shoulder. It's by a very grave-looking man-child. His book consists entirely of famous poems deconstructing themselves into the noise of pop culture. One called "The Archaic Torso of Apollo" ends, "You must swap your wife." He won some big prize for this and seriousness has settled upon his brow like crows in the furrows of fields. Or might have if his brow wasn't completely smooth. In fact there isn't a single line on his face, so his seriousness is more like the vagrant seriousness one sees in the faces of infants just before they empty their little bowels.

[my poet](http://www.poetryfoundation.org/journal/feature.html?id=179843)
